It thought I'd talk really quickly about something that a lot of you guys have been mentioning which
is what do I do at this stage in the process.
If there's something in my application I forgot to tell the freelancer to do.
First off don't fret about it.
It's not a big deal.
A lot of developers expect this to happen.
If they're a good developer they should know that you're going to forget things.
I do it all the time still to this day and I have a professional process by which I and other people
go through and develop the specifications and what you should do if that is the case to rectify this
issue.
One look at the contract in the agreement that you had with them if you're on a per hour basis it's
really simple you say hey I screwed up this is something I'd like to add and they're just going to charge
you for the amount of time that it takes.
So that works perfectly but if it's a fixed price what you need to do is look back at your specifications
in your contract and see whether or not it actually does include it.
And then if it doesn't explicitly include it look to see if it implies that there are a lot of times
that you'll forget to say all this simply because you didn't think that they would need that instruction.
For instance you might think that you don't need to explicitly tell them that you need intermediary
screens like you don't need a screen that pops up and says error or when something goes wrong they might
just have standard text at the top or they might not display anything because they're following the
instructions to the T.
If that's the case look to see if it's implied.
Most developers that you tell them that this was implied or they should have known that the product
wouldn't be good if they didn't do this we'll do that.
And if they don't then unfortunately you just need to negotiate out a additional payment try to keep
it low try to obviously say that like you know it's both your fault that's not a big deal that's the
worst case scenario and you still just have to pay a little bit extra money.
But if your contract did cover at your specifications and then you great if it didn't allow you to pay
a little bit extra.